Docs for global namespace policy attachment (#329)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: content/docs/about/policies/global-attachment.md

---
title: Global policy attachment
weight: 20
---

By default, you must attach policies to resources that are in the same namespace. However, you might have policies that you want to reuse across teams, such as to standardize security protections across your organization.

To do so, you can create policies in a "global" namespace. Then, the policies can attach to resources in any namespace in your cluster through label selectors.

{{< callout type="warning" >}}

> Because it increases the number of policy attachments to calculate, the global policy namespace feature can impact performance at scale. It also changes the standard policy attachment behavior, which can make debugging more difficult. As such, make sure to establish clear guidelines for when and how many global policies to use this feature.

Reviewer: if im misunderstanding the intent feel free to change
```suggestion
Because it increases the number of policy attachments to calculate, the global policy namespace feature can impact performance at scale. It also changes the standard policy attachment behavior, which can make debugging more difficult. As such, make sure to establish clear guidelines for when and how many global policies can use this feature.
```

   access-control-allow-origin: *
   x-more-info: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2324
   date: Wed, 30 Jul 2025 15:45:07 GMT
   content-length: 13
   content-type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
   x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 1
   server: envoy
   
   I'm a teapot!
   ```

4. Delete the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}}.

   ```sh
   kubectl delete {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}} -n httpbin transformation
   ```

5. Create the same {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}} but in a different namespace, such as the `{{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}` namespace.

   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF  
   apiVersion: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy-apiversion.md" >}}
   kind: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}}
   metadata:
     name: transformation
     namespace: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
   spec:
     targetRefs:
     - group: gateway.networking.k8s.io
       kind: HTTPRoute
       name: httpbin
     transformation:
       request:
         set:
         - name: ":path"
           value: '{% if request_header("transform") == "status" %}/status/418{% else %}{{ header(":path") }}{% endif %}'
   EOF
   ```

> 6. Repeat the request. This time, the request is not transformed because the policy cannot be attached since the resource is in a different namespace. Instead, you get the initial 200 response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Repeat the request. This time, the request is not transformed. The policy cannot be attached because the resource is in a different namespace. Instead, you get the initial 200 response.
```

   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

   Example output:
   
   ```txt
   HTTP/1.1 200 OK
   access-control-allow-credentials: true
   access-control-allow-origin: *
   content-type: application/json; encoding=utf-8
   date: Tue, 29 Jul 2025 20:08:21 GMT
   content-length: 587
   x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 1
   server: envoy
   ```
   ```json
   {
     "args": {},
     "headers": {
       "Accept": [
         "*/*"
       ],
       "Host": [
         "www.example.com"
       ],
       "User-Agent": [
         "curl/8.7.1"
       ],
       "X-Envoy-Expected-Rq-Timeout-Ms": [
         "15000"
       ],
       "X-Envoy-External-Address": [
         "127.0.0.1"
       ],
       "X-Forwarded-For": [
         "10.244.0.7"
       ],
       "X-Forwarded-Proto": [
         "http"
       ],
       "X-Request-Id": [
         "7ec1f5f7-72b7-4053-b2e4-0117a2438d4c"
       ]
     },
     "origin": "10.244.0.7",
     "url": "http://www.example.com/anything",
     "data": "",
     "files": null,
     "form": null,
     "json": null
   }
   ```

## Step 2: Enable global policy attachment {#enable-global-policy-attachment}

> By default, policies are attached to resources in the same namespace. Upgrade your {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/kgateway.md" >}} Helm installation to enable the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the global policy attachment feature, upgrade your {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/kgateway.md" >}} Helm installation.
```

1. Get the Helm values for your current Helm installation. 
   ```sh
   helm get values {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}} -n {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}} -o yaml > {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}}.yaml
   open {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}}.yaml
   ```
   

> 2. Add the following values to the Helm values file to enable the global policy namespace feature in {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/kgateway.md" >}}. The example uses the `{{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}` namespace, but you can update the namespace to any existing namespace that you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following values to the Helm values file to enable the global policy namespace feature. The example uses the `{{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}` namespace as the "global" namespace, but you can use any existing namespace that you want.
```

   ```yaml
   
   controller:
     extraEnv:
       KGW_GLOBAL_POLICY_NAMESPACE: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
   ```
   
3. Upgrade your Helm installation. Replace the `--version {{< reuse "/docs/versions/helm-version-flag.md" >}}` option to match your current version.
   
   ```sh
   helm upgrade -i --namespace {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}} --version {{< reuse "/docs/versions/helm-version-flag.md" >}} {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}} oci://{{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-path.md" >}}/charts/{{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}} -f {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}}.yaml
   ```

## Step 3: Create a global policy {#create-global-policy}

Create a global policy in the `{{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}` namespace. Then, use a `global-policy` label selector to attach the policy to resources in any namespace.

> 1. Update the HTTPRoute for the httpbin service to add a label selector. The label selector can be any value that you want, but it must match the label selector in the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the HTTPRoute for the httpbin service to add a label selector. The label selector can be any value that you want, but it must match the label selector that you add in the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}}.
```
